
  • Apple
  • 
      □ Store
      □ Mac
      □ iPad
      □ iPhone
      □ Watch
      □ Vision
      □ AirPods
      □ TV & Home
      □ Entertainment
      □ Accessories
      □ Support
  •  
    [                    ]
  •  0+

Postmaster information for iCloud Mail

If you're a system administrator who manages mail servers that send email to
iCloud Mail, learn about sending bulk email, email authentication, delivery
issues, and more.

What are the requirements for sending bulk email?

Here's what's required in order to send bulk mail to iCloud Mail customers:

All requirements must be met in order to send a bulk email. If not, the email
will be rejected.

  • Send only to recipients who explicitly subscribed to your emails (not list
    purchases, list rentals, or email appends).

  • Offer an unsubscribe link, so that the recipient can unsubscribe
    immediately.

  • Add ARC headers to forwarded emails.

  • Ensure compliance with RFC 5321 and RFC 5322.

  • Publish reverse DNS with your domain to help identify your IP addresses.

  • Use consistent sending IP addresses and domains for your bulk email, but do
    segment marketing and transactional email streams.

  • Use a consistent From: name and address to clearly identify your brand.

  • Make use of Sender Policy Framework (SPF) and DomainKeys Identified Mail
    (DKIM) to authenticate your emails.

  • The sending domain must publish their Domain-based Message Authentication,
    Reporting, and Conformance (DMARC) policy.

  • Track the temporary and permanent SMTP errors from our mail servers and act
    on them accordingly.

  • Have a standard policy for handling bouncing addresses.

  • Periodically remove inactive subscribers from your list.

  • Don't reactivate email addresses that are already on your unsubscribe or
    suppression list.

You can also go to the Messaging, Malware and Mobile Anti-Abuse Working Group
(M^3AAWG) website and check their best communication practices.

Does iCloud Mail offer an allow list for bulk senders?

We don't. We track a sender’s reputation using various mechanisms, such as IP
and domain reputations, content checks, and user feedback. Then we make our
filtering decisions.

Does iCloud Mail offer a feedback loop service?

We don't offer a feedback loop (FBL). We do encourage bulk email senders to
manage the subscribers list, so that only engaged subscribers keep receiving
your emails. Here are a few ways to maintain your subscribers list:

  • Periodically suppress inactive or disengaged subscribers from your mailing
    list.

  • Remove addresses that bounce consistently.

  • Honor unsubscribe requests as soon as possible.

Email authentication

Learn more about email authentication in iCloud Mail.

What are the IP addresses that send for iCloud Mail?

All iCloud Mail domains (mac.com, me.com, and icloud.com) have a published SPF
record. Check our SPF record to see the current IP ranges we use for outbound
mail.

Does iCloud Mail use email authentication?

iCloud Mail authenticates all inbound emails using SPF and DKIM. We also
publish SPF records for our domains and sign all of our outbound emails with
DKIM.

Does iCloud Mail support DMARC?

If a sending domain publishes a Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting,
and Conformance (DMARC) policy, iCloud Mail honors the domain's policy. All
iCloud Mail domains also have a DMARC ("p=quarantine") policy*, which indicates
to a mail provider that an email from an iCloud email address that fails SPF
and DKIM email authentication should go to the recipient's Junk folder.

*The policy took effect on July 2, 2018.

Delivery issues

Use the recommendations below to make sure that your recipients get your email.

Why don't our messages go to the recipient's inbox?

Please follow the best practices for sending bulk email, so that your emails
won't be considered junk mail. iCloud Mail automatically detects and blocks
junk mail before it reaches the inbox. We do our best to ensure that all
legitimate and wanted emails get to our users, but occasionally those emails
might be filtered as junk.

How can I resolve delivery issues to iCloud Mail?

When refusing SMTP transactions, our mail servers generate SMTP errors with
information about why your connection or message was rejected. To find the
error message, check your mail logs. Most of the errors will also include a URL
that provides more information.

If you still need help

If you followed our best practices and reviewed your mail logs for more
information but still can't diagnose and address delivery issues, you may
contact our postmaster team by sending an email to icloudadmin@apple.com with
all of the following information:

  • Your company name

  • Your email domain

  • The IP addresses of the affected mail servers

  • The SMTP errors that you're getting from iCloud mail servers

  • A detailed description of the issue, including when it started

If you're not a system administrator and need help with iCloud Mail, contact
Apple Support instead.

Published Date: February 25, 2025
Helpful?
Yes No
[                    ]
Character limit: 250
Maximum character limit is 250.
Please don’t include any personal information in your comment. Submit
Thanks for your feedback.
[related_to]

Related topics

[get-suppor]

Contact Apple Support

Need more help? Save time by starting your support request online and we'll
connect you to an expert.

Get started

Apple Footer

 Apple

 1. Support
 2. Postmaster information for iCloud Mail

United States
Copyright © 2025 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy Terms of Use Sales and Refunds Site Map
