Skip to main content
 
Gmail Help
[                    ]
●
Sign in
 
Google Help

  • Help Center
  • Community
  • Gmail
  • Privacy Policy
  • Terms of Service
  • Submit feedback

Send feedback on...
(*)
This help content & information
( )
General Help Center experience
Next

  • Help Center
  • Community
  • New to integrated Gmail

Gmail

  • Import & forward emails
  • Best practices for forwarding email to Gmail

Best practices for forwarding email to Gmail

This article has recommendations for email administrators and Gmail users who
forward messages from other accounts or services to Gmail. Forwarding email
messages can affect email authentication. Follow the recommendations in this
article to increase the likelihood that forwarded messages pass authentication
and are delivered as expected.

Email administrators: If you’re an email administrator who forwards email to
Gmail from other servers or services, take steps to ensure Gmail correctly
marks forwarded messages as legitimate or spam. Follow our recommendations in
the section Email forwarding for administrators.

Email senders: We always recommend that senders set up SPF and DKIM
authentication. For forwarded messages, DKIM authentication is especially
important to help ensure your email is delivered as expected. Learn more

Gmail users: If you forward messages from a non-Gmail account to your Gmail
account, follow our recommendations in the section Email forwarding for Gmail
users.

Email forwarding for administrators & senders

If you manage email for your organization and you forward email from other
servers or services to Gmail, follow the recommendations in this section to
ensure email is delivered as expected.

Help prevent forwarded messages from being marked as spam

These practices help ensure messages forwarded to Gmail pass SPF
authentication, reducing the likelihood that Gmail marks messages as spam:

  • Change the envelope sender to reference your forwarding domain.
  • Make sure your domain's SPF record includes the IP addresses or domains of
    all servers or services that forward email for your domain.
  • Use third-party products or services to identify spam messages, and prevent
    them from being forwarded. If forwarded messages from your domain are
    marked as spam by recipients, future messages from your domain are more
    likely to be marked as spam.
  • Consider using a unique domain or IP address to forward messages. This is
    one of our recommendations for preventing email to Gmail users from being
    blocked or sent to spam.

Help forwarded messages pass authentication

  • Set up SPF and DKIM email authentication: We recommend email administrators
    always set up SPF and DKIM email authentication for their domain. Email
    forwarding can affect message authentication, and forwarded messages often
    fail SPF authentication. This is why we recommend you always set up DKIM
    authentication, along with SPF, to help ensure your messages are
    authenticated and delivered as expected.
  • Avoid breaking DKIM authentication: Messages that don't pass DKIM are more
    likely to be sent to spam. Changes to message contents can cause messages
    to fail DKIM authentication. Avoid changing the body and message headers
    protected by DKIM. For messages sent from frequently spoofed domains, Gmail
    enforces strict authentication requirements. The following actions can
    cause forwarded messages to fail DKIM: 
      □ Modifying the MIME boundaries
      □ Modifying the message Subject
      □ Third-party software modifying the body of the message (including
        re-encoding the message)
      □ Expanding message recipients with LDAP
      □ Modifying the Subject and other headers protected by the DKIM signing
        domain (including To, Cc, Date, and Message-ID)
  • Add ARC headers: To reduce the likelihood that forwarded messages are
    rejected or marked as spam, we recommend you add ARC headers to forwarded
    messages. ARC verifies previous authentication checks for forwarded
    messages, and helps ensure forwarded messages are delivered to the final
    recipients. Learn more about ARC.
  • Add forwarding headers: To let email servers know that a message is
    forwarded, add an X-Forwarded-For: or X-Forwarded-To: message header.
    Receiving servers manage forwarded messages differently than direct,
    incoming messages.

Email forwarding for Gmail users

If you forward messages from other email accounts to your personal Gmail
account, follow the recommendations in this section to help ensure messages are
delivered correctly:

  • Set up IMAP or POP in your Gmail account: IMAP lets you read messages on
    multiple devices, and messages are synced in real time. POP lets you get
    messages on a single device, and messages aren't synced in real time.
    Instead, they're downloaded and you decide how often you want to download
    new emails. For detailed steps to set up IMAP or POP with your Gmail
    account, visit Check emails from other accounts.
  • Mark or unmark spam messages: When Gmail incorrectly marks a message as
    spam or phishing, fix the mistake by following the steps in mark or unmark
    messages as spam. This helps Gmail correctly identify spam and legitimate
    messages in the future. 
  • Update your Gmail settings: If you forward messages from another email
    account to your Gmail account, Gmail might incorrectly mark some messages
    as spam or phishing. To help prevent this, add your non-Gmail address to
    Gmail’s Send mail as setting. For detailed steps, visit Send emails from a
    different address or alias.

