[OLHdrLogo] |

Smart Network Data Service

Smart Network Data Service

View Data View IP Status Request Access Access Control Edit Profile FAQ Junk
Mail Reporting Program

Announcements: Click here to see new updates for SNDS. Updated January 22nd,
2026

Welcome

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Outlook.com Smart Network Data Services
Deliverability to Outlook.com is based on your reputation. The Outlook.com
Smart Network Data Services (SNDS) gives you the data you need to understand
and improve your reputation at Outlook.com. But just looking at the data isn't
enough! Maintaining a good reputation is a lot of work. You should use this
data to keep your mailing lists clean and to monitor the IPs you control for
unusual behavior. Reputation is always the responsibility of the sender. SNDS
gives senders access to detailed data about individual IPs, and it also
includes our Junk Email Reporting Program, which lets you receive reports when
users junk your messages. Now you can view IP data and manage feedback loop
settings from one convenient website.

Updates


  • SNDS will now require authentication when approving or denying network
    access, adding an extra layer of protection.
  • JMRP Feeds are now standardized on all reports to ARF format for
    consistency and improved processing.
  • SNDS has discontinued complaint sample downloads.
  • SNDS is increasing protections around "Automated Data Access". If you're
    experiencing issues with an "Automated Data Access" link, please login with
    the account that created the link to verify it's still listed on the
    Automated Data Access page.

Upcoming changes


  • We are updating the ARF feedback format to include only the original
    message headers from the complaint email, plus selected authentication
    headers (for example, Authentication‑Results and Received‑SPF). The sender
    address will be redacted. Previously, the ARF included the full complaint
    email body, under the new format, that content is no longer appended.
  • SNDS will move to a new URL as part of an upcoming service update.
  • Automated report links will expire after 30 days.
    Feature rollout will continue after a short delay as we incorporate user
    feedback.
  • JMRP feeds that are not linked to SNDS accounts will be removed. You will
    be asked to create new ones from your SNDS account and keep the network
    access up-to-date.

Getting started
To access SNDS, please log in with a Microsoft Account and then request access
to the IPs for which you are responsible. You'll be taken through a simple
authorization process, and then you'll soon have access to a wealth of
information about those IPs.

Help! I have a problem sending mail to Outlook.com
Building & maintaining good reputation is a long-term proposition. The data on
this site can help you do that, but if you have an urgent deliverability issue
please have the person most familiar with the issue and your email
infrastructure contact sender support.

Other Benefits
SNDS is useful for far more than just monitoring email reputation. It can help
IP owners to detect compromised servers, malware, viruses, and botnets. We help
network administrators detect these problems so that they can clean them up and
make the internet a safer place.
© 2013 | Privacy Statement | Microsoft Services Agreement
