                    Fighting Junk Email

                    Microsoft's email safety roadmap involves an unmatched
                    cross-product approach. SmartScreen® anti-spam and
                    anti-phishing filtering technology is being applied across
                    Microsoft's email platforms to provide customers with the
                    latest anti-spam and anti-phishing tools and innovations
                    throughout the network. These products include Outlook.com,
                    Exchange, Office 365, and more.
                    The goal for Outlook.com is to offer a comprehensive and
                    usable email service that helps detect and protect users
                    from junk email, fraudulent email threats (phishing) and
                    viruses.

                    The Challenge

                    Email has become an important communication tool not only
                    for consumers but also for marketers, support staff, sales
                    organizations, and businesses of all sizes. As email use
                    has grown, so has email abuse. Unmonitored junk email can
                    clog inboxes and networks, impact consumer satisfaction,
                    and hamper the effectiveness of legitimate email
                    communications. While technology alone cannot solve the
                    problem, it is a critical component in our comprehensive
                    anti-spam approach. That's why Microsoft continues to
                    invest in research and development to advance anti-spam
                    technologies. Simply put, it starts by containing and
                    filtering junk email.

                    Our Efforts

                    We offer a number of steps to minimize the negative impact
                    junk email has on our users' email experience. For example,
                    we've implemented a number of mechanisms to reduce the
                    burden of junk email which currently prevents nearly 4.5
                    billion email messages from reaching Outlook.com users
                    every day!

                    Junk Email Filters

                    Microsoft SmartScreen®

                    To help reduce the consequences of junk email, Outlook.com
                    includes junk email protection using patented SmartScreen®
                    technology which screens email to identify and separate
                    junk email from legitimate email. Based on Microsoft
                    Research's patented machine-learning technology, the
                    SmartScreen® content filter learns from known spam and
                    phishing threats, user feedback, as well as from
                    Outlook.com users who have opted to be part of our junk
                    email classification program. These types of data help
                    train SmartScreen® how to recognize legitimate email and
                    junk email and are key inputs into sender reputation.
                    Machine learning refers to the probability-based algorithms
                    that are used to distinguish between the different
                    characteristics of legitimate and junk email. Ongoing
                    feedback from Outlook.com customers in the junk email
                    classification program helps ensure that the SmartScreen®
                    technology is continually trained and improved.

                    How does it work?

                    When an external user sends email messages to an
                    Outlook.com account, SmartScreen® filter technology
                    evaluates the content of the messages and assigns the
                    message a rating based on the probability that the message
                    is junk email. This rating is stored as a message property
                    called a spam confidence level (SCL) within the message
                    itself. The SCL rating stays with the message as it is sent
                    to other anti-spam protection layers within Outlook.com.
                    Rules inside Outlook.com are set to handle email messages
                    with various SCL ratings. If a message has an SCL rating
                    lower than a certain threshold, it is considered spam and a
                    rule then deletes the message rather than send the message
                    to the users' junk email folders. If the message has a
                    higher SCL rating than the threshold, the email is
                    delivered to the user's junk email folder rather than to
                    the inbox.

                    Outlook.com Filters

                    In addition to the anti-spam filtering technologies,
                    Outlook.com also gives each user the ability to set filter
                    levels to further improve the delivery of email to their
                    account. Users can easily add a sender or domain name to
                    the Safe Senders and Domains List so that the email from
                    that sender or domain is never treated as junk regardless
                    of the content of the message. Conversely, users can enable
                    "exclusive" mode to accept only messages from the Contacts
                    and Safe Senders List.
                    Email messages from a certain email address or domain name
                    can also be blocked by adding the sender to your Blocked
                    Senders List, or by clicking "Mark as junk" in the
                    Outlook.com client. In addition, when a message is reported
                    as junk email using the "Junk" reporting button in
                    Outlook.com, we use this feedback from our users to help
                    determine if future messages from that sender should be
                    blocked or filtered automatically.

                    Phishing Protection

                    Phishing (pronounced "fishing") is a form of identity theft
                    and one of the fastest growing threats on the Internet. You
                    can often identify a phishing message by the fact that it
                    requests personal or financial information or includes a
                    link to a website that requests such information.
Postmaster          Outlook.com offer phishing protection as part of the
                    patented SmartScreen® filter technology. SmartScreen®
  • Announcements   analyzes emails to help detect fraudulent links or spoofed
  • Fighting Junk   domains to help protect users from these types of online
    Email           scams.
  • Policies
  • Services        How does it work?
  • Troubleshooting
  • Outbound IP     Often a phishing email will be sent containing a link, once
    Space           clicked it will redirect users to a fraudulent web site
                    appearing to be valid (like your financial institution or
Related places      online service).  This phishing site usually prompts users
                    to enter personal information like user names, passwords
  • About           and/or social security numbers. Any information entered on
    Outlook.com     the phishing site helps the phisher steal your identity. By
  • End-User        using well-known trusted brand names and logos, phishers
    Support         are able to appear legitimate. Microsoft's SmartScreen®
                    phishing filter technology offered in Outlook.com checks
                    for potential phishing characteristics in email.  If found,
                    the email is either deleted or a warning is given via the
                    Safety Information Bar.
                    Microsoft is focusing its anti-phishing technology efforts
                    on two fronts: first by helping to prevent phishing email
                    messages from reaching our customers and secondly helping
                    to eliminate the possibility of customers being deceived by
                    spoofed emails and web sites. Internet Explorer version 7
                    and above will block or warn users when they visit known or
                    potential phishing sites so that they aren't tricked into
                    providing personal information.

                    Authentication

                    Domain spoofing is a way of imitating a legitimate email
                    address to make fraudulent email look legitimate. Spoofing
                    is used by malicious individuals and organizations in
                    phishing scams to lure people into divulging sensitive
                    personal information. Disclosure of such information can
                    lead to identify theft and other types of fraud.
                    Outlook.com uses the Sender Protection Framework (SPF),
                    DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM), and Domain-based Message
                    Authentication, Reporting, and Conformance (DMARC) to
                    verify that messages came from the domain they claim to
                    come from. We recommend that all senders use SPF and DKIM
                    to protect their recipients from junk email and phishing
                    scams. Beyond that we recommend senders consider publishing
                    a DMARC to reject or quarantine mail sent from unauthorized
                    senders.
                    To learn more about SPF, please read RFC 4408
                    To learn more about DKIM, please read RFC 4871
                    To learn more about DMARC, please visit dmarc.org

                    How does it work?

                    Outlook.com uses domain, IP, and authentication results as
                    part of our SmartScreen® junk email filters. Once the
                    sender has been authenticated, the results may then be
                    cross-referenced to past traffic patterns and sender
                    reputation. This makes it possible to block not only junk
                    but phishing scams as well.

                    Trusted Sender

                    In order to further protect users from phishing attacks,
                    Outlook.com marks messages from some authenticated senders
                    as "trusted" in the Outlook.com interface. This is neither
                    an endorsement of any particular sender, nor is it
                    guarantee of delivery. Rather, it simply tells our users
                    that the message in question actually came from the
                    purported sender. The list of domains in this program is
                    determined solely by the Outlook.com team. We will continue
                    to expand the list as appropriate to protect our users, but
                    we are not accepting applications from individual senders
                    to join. We use the following criteria when considering
                    which domains to add:

                      • The domain must already be spoofed in phishing attacks
                        against Outlook.com users
                      • The domain must send messages with sensitive
                        transactional contents
                      • The domain must send large volumes of mail to
                        Outlook.com
                      • The domain must use SPF or DKIM to authenticate
                        messages

                    Unsubscribe

                    Outlook.com provides an "unsubscribe" option in our
                    interface, which allows users to stop getting mail from a
                    particular sender. Clicking unsubscribe adds the sender to
                    the user's block list, to ensure no more email will be
                    received. If we recognize the sender, and know they have a
                    history of good sending practices, we'll also ask them to
                    remove the user from their mailing list, so the senders
                    know not to keep trying to send to that user.
                    In order to receive unsubscribe feedback, senders must
                    include an RFC2369-compliant List-Unsubscribe header
                    containing a mailto: address. Please note that we only
                    enable this feedback via email, so URIs for other protocols
                    such as http will be ignored. The sender must also have a
                    good reputation, and must act promptly in removing users
                    from their lists. We do not provide unsubscribe feedback to
                    senders when a user unsubscribes from an untrusted message.
                    To learn more about List-Unsubscribe please read RFC2369

                    Legislation

                    At Microsoft, we believe that the development of new
                    technologies and self-regulation requires the support of
                    effective government policy and legal frameworks. The
                    worldwide spam proliferation has spurred numerous
                    legislative bodies to regulate commercial email. Many
                    countries/regions now have spam-fighting laws in place. The
                    United States has both federal and state laws governing
                    spam, and this complementary approach is helping to curtail
                    spam while enabling legitimate e-commerce to prosper. The
                    CAN-SPAM Act expands the tools available for curbing
                    fraudulent and deceptive email messages.
                    While legislation is important, it is only one part of a
                    strategy to fight spam. Other means to fight spam include
                    developing improved spam-fighting technology, implementing
                    industry best practices and junk email reporting methods,
                    educating email users, and prosecuting spammers.
                    To learn more, please visit http://www.microsoft.com/mscorp
                    /safety/legislation/default.mspx.

  • © 2018 Microsoft
  • Terms
  • Privacy & cookies
  • Developers
  • English (United States)


  • [invis] Outlook.com
  • [invis] People
  • [invis] Calendar
  • [invis] OneDrive
  • [invis] Word Online
  • [invis] Excel Online
  • [invis] PowerPoint Online
  • [invis] OneNote Online
  • [invis] Sway
  • [invis] Office Online

  • Inbox
  • Calendar
  • Contacts
  • Send email

  • Documents
  • Photos
  • Recent docs
  • Shared
  • Groups
  • Photos of you
  • [invis] New Word document
  • [invis] New Excel workbook
  • [invis] New PowerPoint presentation
  • [invis] New OneNote notebook

