 
Sender Features
Complaint Feedback LoopAMPPromotions & SchemaBIMIVTOSubscription HubPerformance
Feeds
Deliverability
Sender Requirements & RecommendationsFAQsError CodesOutbound Mail ServersMail
Proxy Servers
Developers
API AccessDocumentation
Contact
[svg]
[92][FAQ-Hero-B][FAQ-Hero-B]

FAQs

2024 Email Sender Requirements


General

What are the new requirements for senders in 2024?

  • You can view the new requirements on our Sender Requirements &
    Recommendations page here.

How does Yahoo classify a “bulk sender”?

  • For the purposes of enforcement, a “sender” is viewed at the authenticated
    domain or From header domain level. However, we will use all of the
    information available (content, IP, etc.) to review sender compliance.
  • A “bulk” sender is classified as an email sender sending a significant
    volume of mail. We will not specify a volume threshold.

Does the number of spoofed emails count towards Yahoo thresholds for a bulk
sender?

  • Yes, those emails will count towards the mail we look at for enforcement.
  • If you have a spoofing problem, you should be implementing a DMARC
    enforcement policy (p=quarantine or p=reject) regardless.

When will these requirements go into effect?

  • The rollout of enforcement will begin in February 2024.

What will happen to my mail if I don't meet the requirements?

  • If you do not meet the requirements, your mail may be sent to the spam
    folder or rejected.
  • If mail is rejected, we will return a specific error code with information
    about the rejection.

Do these requirements apply to AOL too? What about Yahoo Japan?

  • These requirements apply for all domains and consumer email brands hosted
    by Yahoo Mail.
  • Yahoo Japan is a separate entity, and we cannot speak to their plans as we
    do not coordinate with them.

Complaint Rate

Where can I see the spam complaint rate for my domain?

  • Sign up for the Complaint Feedback Loop and monitor complaints received
    against mail sent to Yahoo domains.
  • Keep an eye on the Sender Hub for additional resources to come.

What timeframe is used to calculate the spam complaint rate for enforcement?

  • Our system continuously evaluates mail, and we may defer mail from domains
    with a high complaint rate. This will not change.

Unsubscribe

Is one-click unsubscribe required for all of my mail?

  • No, one-click unsubscribe is only required for promotional/marketing
    messages. The requirement does not apply to transactional messages (e.g.
    order confirmations, password resets).

Is an unsubscribe link in the body of the message sufficient?

  • No, you must implement the list-unsubscribe header (preferably according to
    RFC 8058) in order to meet the requirement for one-click unsubscribe.
  • You may also have an unsubscribe link in the body of the message, which can
    direct to a preference page.
  • For more information, please refer to our detailed page
  • Enforcement of one-click unsubscribe will begin in June 2024

Is there a grace period for a non-functional unsubscribe link?

  • If the unsubscribe is not honored in 2 days, then it would not meet the
    requirement.

Complaint Feedback Loop (CFL)

How do I know if my CFL enrollment was successful?

  • After submitting an application and completing the verification process,
    you will start receiving ARF reports

Does Yahoo offer an IP-based feedback loop?

  • Yahoo no longer offers IP or CIDR-based CFL reporting.

How do I update or delete my CFL record?

  • If you forget the CFL address or lose access to that email, fill out a CFL
    application, but select Update from the “Request type” drop-down menu.
  • If you'd like to stop receiving reports, fill out a CFL application and
    select Delete under “Request type.” Once we process your submission, you'll
    stop receiving CFL reports for the given domain.

What is the format of a CFL?

  • All reports are provided in the Abuse Reporting Format (ARF). They include
    the full email headers, the original message body and some additional
    machine readable meta-data.
  • Email header information specific to Yahoo ARF reports:
      □ The From: header reads: 'Yahoo! Mail AntiSpam Feedback'.
      □ The SMTP MAIL FROM (envelope sender) is formatted as: '
        feedback@arf.mail.yahoo.com'.
      □ CFL is DKIM signed with domain 'arf.mail.yahoo.com'.
  • Abuse Reporting Format basics
      □ The Abuse Reporting Format is used by most complaint feedback loops.
        They're meant to be extensible and typically provide generic spam
        reporting info. The reports are provided in MIME format.
      □ The report includes at a minimum 3 parts:
          ☆ A plain text part with a generic message
          ☆ A MIME formatted part - machine readable meta-data
          ☆ The original message
      □ Review an example report from the ARF RFC.
  • If you are unfamiliar with any of the topics discussed above, we recommend
    these resources from Wikipedia or IETF to learn more:
      □ Abuse Reporting Format - The standard format for Complaint Feedback
        Loop reports.
      □ MIME Format - Multipurpose Internet Mail extensions internet standard.
      □ Complaint Feedback Loop - Interorganizational feedback program for spam
        related user complaints.
      □ RFC 5965 - An extensible format for email feedback reports (ARF).

DMARC

What is DMARC?

  • Yahoo strongly urges senders to publish a DMARC policy for each domain that
    sends mail.
  • DMARC (Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting & Conformance) is a
    technical specification created by a group of organizations that want to
    help reduce the potential for email-based abuse by solving a couple of
    long-standing operational, deployment, and reporting issues related to
    email authentication protocols.
  • DMARC standardizes how email receivers perform email authentication using
    the well known SPF and DKIM mechanisms. This means that senders should
    experience consistent authentication results for their messages at any
    email receiver implementing DMARC.
  • A DMARC policy lets a sender indicate their emails are protected by SPF and
    /or DKIM. It tells a receiver what to do if neither authentication passes,
    such as rejecting the message. DMARC removes guesswork from the receiver's
    handling of these failed messages, limiting or eliminating the user's
    exposure to potentially fraudulent and harmful messages. DMARC also
    provides a way for the email receiver to report back to the sender about
    messages that pass and/or fail DMARC evaluation.
  • Senders use DKIM (Domain Keys Identified Mail) to create a signature of the
    content of email messages.
  • Senders use SPF (Sender Policy Framework) to specify the list of IPs which
    are allowed to send mail for a domain.
  • DMARC policies are published in the public Domain Name System (DNS), and
    available to everyone. The IETF has accepted the DMARC specification as an
    Independent Submission and it is published as RFC 7489.

How will DMARC improve deliverability?

  • DMARC allows senders to specify how receivers can act on email which may
    not be sent from their domains. Depending on the policy published by the
    sender it may get rejected, or go to the spam folder or no action may be
    taken.
  • DMARC primarily protects you from third parties forging your domain. If
    that is a current problem for you, it will probably also improve
    deliverability.

How does Yahoo use DMARC?

  • Yahoo strongly urges senders to publish a DMARC policy for each domain that
    sends mail.
  • DMARC, an industry consortium to promote safer email and reduce spoofing,
    is supported and honored by Yahoo.
  • If a domain is protected by DMARC with “p=reject”, any message without a
    proper DKIM signature or SPF alignment will be rejected by Yahoo's mail
    servers.
  • Yahoo also publishes DMARC policies as a sender that guides receivers
    (including Yahoo, Aol, Hotmail, and Gmail) to reject email (p=reject) that
    may not be legitimately sent by Yahoo.
  • Our DMARC policy proactively protects our users from email spam that mimics
    Yahoo's email addresses from other mail servers. This helps secure our
    users' email identities from being used by unauthorized senders, however,
    it can also interfere with some long-standing uses of identities that are
    authorized by the user but not verifiable.
  • For more information, see our Sender Requirements & Recommendations,
    DMARC.org, DKIM.org, and OpenSPF.org.

SPF

What is SPF?

  • SPF (Sender Policy Framework) is an email validation protocol designed to
    detect and block email that originates from outside the specific set of IP
    addresses that a domain has authorized.
  • SPF records allow Yahoo to reject messages which originate from IPs not
    listed in the domain's SPF record.
  • For details, please refer to the SPF site.

DKIM

What is DKIM?

  • DKIM (Domain Keys Identified Mail) is an email authentication standard. It
    uses a public/private encrypted key approach to authenticate the domain
    responsible for an email.
  • DKIM lets senders digitally sign their emails sent to Yahoo mail accounts,
    associating the digital signature with the actual domain name of that
    organization.
  • DKIM enables Yahoo to associate a message verifiably with a specific
    handler and ensure that it has not been changed since the signature was
    added.
  • For more information, please refer to the DKIM site.

How are multiple DKIM signatures evaluated?

  • Yahoo evaluates all DKIM signatures and uses the results to determine DMARC
    alignment, to calculate reputation, and ascertain CFL fulfillment.
  • If a mail message has multiple DMARC-aligned signatures and they do not all
    pass, Yahoo does not guarantee that it will pass DMARC.

Reputation

How does Yahoo determine a mailer's overall reputation?

  • Yahoo considers many factors including, but not limited to:
      □ IP address reputation
      □ URL reputation
      □ Domain reputation
      □ Sender reputation
      □ ASN (Autonomous System Number) reputation
      □ DKIM (DomainKeys Identified Mail) signatures
      □ DMARC (Domain-based Message Authentication Reporting and Conformance)
        authentication
  • Even if you have a reputable sending history, users can vote your email as
    spam and affect your overall reputation.
  • So, if you want to get your emails to the inbox, our Sender Requirements &
    Recommendations recommends sending relevant content to the users who want
    it and have opted to receive it.

My domain reputation is good — but my message is in the spam folder. Why?

  • Mail can be redirected to the Spam folder for various reasons. A
    combination of poor reputation and high complaints can cause mail to be
    directed to the Spam folder.
  • We usually do not redirect mail to the Spam folder for poor reputation
    alone. It can be a combination of reputation with other poor mailing
    characteristics like:
      □ Obfuscation of URL's in body of mail
      □ IP's which do not have a FQDN in their rDNS
      □ Not RFC compliant
  • We also recommend that you adhere to our Sender Requirements &
    Recommendations requirements for sending mail.

Delivery

What actions can a sender take to improve delivery to Yahoo domains?

  • Yahoo strongly urges senders to publish a DMARC policy for each domain that
    sends mail.
  • Review our Sender Requirements & Recommendations and make changes where
    appropriate.
  • Opt out users who have marked your email as spam in the past. Enroll in the
    Yahoo CFL program to get that information.
  • Send different email content types via separate IPs and streams. If you
    start sending unsolicited commercial email using the same IPs as
    transactional email, your sending reputation can be impacted.
  • Make sure your emails are DKIM signed. DKIM signature helps Yahoo
    authenticate that email is safe, secure and from the senders who claim to
    send it.
  • Control your email traffic. If you send emails at a certain rate and
    suddenly have a spike of activity, you could get flagged as a compromised
    sender and marked as spam. Instead, plan your campaign and spread it out
    over a period of time.
  • Check your email content. If the subject lines are not helpful or appear to
    be generic, users may not be interested and mark it as spam. When many
    users mark an email you send as spam, it can impact your overall
    deliverability.
  • Publish reverse DNS (PTR) records for your sending IPs. Yahoo is more
    likely to downgrade an IP's sending reputation if there isn't a reverse DNS
    entry for your IP address. Not having a reverse DNS entry can cause your
    mailing IP to look like a dynamically-assigned IP instead of a static mail
    server.

How can I get my Email delivered to Yahoo inboxes?

  • Yahoo advises senders to adhere to high-quality methods to improve
    deliverability. See our Sender Requirements & Recommendations.
  • Yahoo understands email is a mission critical real-time service for all its
    users. No one wants to miss an email or have it delayed. We work very hard
    to ensure a high quality of service so the right mail reaches the right
    user at the right time.
  • At the same time, we have to make sure our users are protected from
    unwanted email, especially spam, viruses and malware. To that end, we have
    a complex anti-spam filtering system that weeds out unwanted email before
    it reaches the inbox.
  • There are several factors that determine which emails land in the inbox and
    which goes to spam. Even if Yahoo's systems are not filtering out the
    email, the user may have specifically blocked certain domains and email
    addresses. These user rules will override the determination by Yahoo's spam
    filtering system and still put the email in the spam folder. Again, this is
    entirely between the sender and user.

Can Yahoo whitelist my IPs?

  • No. The term whitelisting tends to imply guaranteed inbox delivery. Yahoo
    does not have a whitelisting program.
  • If you are having difficulty sending to us or have reason to anticipate
    difficulty (a large launch or a legal notification, for instance) you can
    notify us by submitting a Sender Support Request.
  • Based on our review, we'll modify your reputation in our systems if needed.
    Keep in mind that still doesn't guarantee inbox delivery.

I just added IPs/domains to my account but they can't send. Why?

  • If you're having difficulties sending to a Yahoo email address and are a
    new sender or have a new IP, fill out the Sender Support Request. Make sure
    to include the error and diagnostic codes in your logs.
  • We'll review the info provided and will modify your reputation as needed.
  • Keep in mind we cannot guarantee inbox delivery and you should always
    follow our Sender Requirements & Recommendations.

Message Size

What is the maximum message size Yahoo accepts?

  • Yahoo will accept an attachment up to approximately 25 megabytes but
    various factors may influence how large a document you can attach.
  • This size limit cannot be configured by the member, nor adjusted by the
    Postmaster team.

Abuse

How do I report abuse by Yahoo customers?

  • If you receive content from any Yahoo domain that violates our Terms of
    Service, let us know right away.
  • In many cases, you can report inappropriate content directly from our
    products by reporting the message as Spam.
  • If a Yahoo mail account is sending you Spam, you can inform us via the
    Report Abuse form.
  • When reporting junk, abusive or unwanted email from Yahoo members, please
    include the full text of the message along with the full header information
    . Lacking the header information, we cannot determine the actual source of
    the email.

BIMI

I published a BIMI record but my logo is not displayed. Why?

  • Yahoo will display your BIMI logo if:
      □ A BIMI record exists which points to a valid logo in SVG format
      □ A DMARC policy of quarantine or reject is in place
      □ The mailing is sent to large number of recipients (bulk mail)
      □ And we see sufficient reputation and engagement for the email address
  • If you think all of those requirements are met but still no logo is
    displayed, please reach out to mail-questions@yahooinc.com and provide as
    much details as possible.

Support

Terms
and
Privacy Policy
Privacy DashboardAbout UsJobsDeveloper PrivacyDeveloper TermsDeveloper Policies
Site Feedback

Brands

AOLYahooYahoo Developer NetworkYahoo Advertising
     
© 2023 Yahoo. All rights reserved.

Support

Terms
and
Privacy Policy
Privacy DashboardAbout UsJobsDeveloper PrivacyDeveloper TermsDeveloper Policies
Site Feedback

Brands

AOLYahooYahoo Developer NetworkYahoo Advertising
     
© 2023 Yahoo. All rights reserved.
