[microsoft] |

Outlook.com Postmaster

Postmaster

Announcements Fighting Junk Email Policies Services Troubleshooting Outbound IP
Space

Related places

About Outlook.com End-User Support

Policies, Practices, and Guidelines

Microsoft is dedicated to help provide the most trusted and protected consumer
experience on the web. Therefore, Microsoft has developed various policies,
procedures, and adopted several industry best practices to help protect our
consumers from abusive, unwanted or malicious email. Senders attempting to send
email to Outlook.com users should ensure they fully understand and are
following the guidance on this page to help in this effort and to help avoid
potential deliverability issues.

 1. General Microsoft Policies

    Email sent to Outlook.com users must comply with all Microsoft policies
    governing email transmission and use of Outlook.com.
      □ Microsoft Services Agreement
      □ Microsoft Anti-Spam Policy

 2. Governmental Regulations

    Email sent to Outlook.com users must adhere to all applicable laws and
    regulations governing email communications in the applicable jurisdiction.
      □ CAN-SPAM Act
      □ Email Marketers Must Honor "Unsubscribe" Claims

 3. Technical Guidelines

    Email sent to Outlook.com should comply with the applicable recommendations
    listed in the documents below (some links are only available in English)
      □ Anti-spam Recommendations for SMTP MTAs (BCP 30), The Internet Society
      □ SMTP Service Extension for Command Pipelining (STD 60), The Internet
        Society

    In addition, email servers connecting to Outlook.com must adhere to the
    following requirements:
      □ Sender is expected to comply with all technical standards for the
        transmission of Internet email, as published by The Internet Society's
        Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), including RFC 2821, RFC 2822,
        and others.
      □ After given a numeric SMTP error response code between 500 and 599
        (also known as a permanent non-delivery response), the sender must not
        attempt to retransmit that message to that recipient.
      □ After multiple non-delivery responses (see #2), the sender must cease
        further attempts to send email to that recipient.
      □ Sender must not open more than 500 simultaneous connections to
        Outlook.com inbound email servers without making prior arrangements.
      □ Messages must not be transmitted through insecure email relay or proxy
        servers.
      □ The mechanism for unsubscribing, either from individual lists or all
        lists hosted by the sender, must be clearly documented and easy for
        recipients to find and use.
      □ Connections from dynamic IP space may not be accepted..
      □ Email servers must have valid reverse DNS records.
      □ Senders must not use namespace mining techniques against Outlook.com
        inbound email servers. This is the practice of verifying email
        addresses without sending (or attempting to send) emails to those
        addresses.

 4. Authentication

    To combat spoofing and phishing and to help ensure that messages are
    genuinely from the claimed sender, Outlook.com utilizes several email
    authentication standards. We strongly recommend all senders implement SPF,
    DKIM, and DMARC to protect their domain's reputation and improve
    deliverability.

    Effective May 5th, 2025, specific authentication requirements are in place
    for high-volume senders: Domains sending more than 5,000 emails per day to
    Outlook.com accounts must fully be compliant with SPF, DKIM, and DMARC.
    Messages from high-volume senders that do not meet these requirements will
    be sent to the junk folder. If issues remain unresolved, messages may be
    rejected with the error:
    550; 5.7.515 Access denied, sending domain [SendingDomain] does not meet
    the required authentication level.

    For more details on these requirements and how to prepare, please see our
    blog post on strengthening the email ecosystem.

    Key authentication mechanisms and their requirements include:

      □ SPF (Sender Policy Framework)
          ☆ Must pass for the sending domain.
          ☆ Your domain's DNS records should accurately list authorized IP
            addresses/hosts.
      □ DKIM (DomainKeys Identified Mail)
          ☆ Must pass to validate email integrity and authenticity.
      □ DMARC (Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting, and Conformance)
          ☆ At least p=none (p=reject is recommended) and align with either SPF
            or DKIM (preferably both)

 5. Reputation Management

    Senders, ISP's and other third party senders and service providers should
    actively manage the reputation of your outbound IPs. Outlook.com has
    developed the following free services to help in this effort.
      □ Junk Email Reporting Program (JMRP)
      □ Smart Network Data Services (SNDS)


Additional Resources

 1. Deliverability Support

    If you are adhering to the guidelines, practices and policies presented on
    this page and are still experiencing deliverability issues, please contact
    Outlook.com deliverability support. If you are not in compliance with the
    above policies and guidelines, it may not be possible for our support team
    to assist you.
      □ Outlook.com Deliverability Support

 2. Email Deliverability Resources and Organizations

    Microsoft actively works with industry bodies and service providers in
    order to improve the internet/email ecosystem. These organizations have
    published best practice documents that we support and recommend senders
    adhere to. This improves your deliverability amongst several email service
    providers around the world.
      □ Authentication & Online Trust Alliance
      □ Messaging Anti-Abuse Working Group
      □ Email Sender and Provider Coalition

 3. Abuse and Spam Reporting

    To report unlawful, abusive, unwanted or malicious email that you find
    originating from an Outlook.com, Hotmail, Live, or MSN account, please
    forward a complete copy of the abusive message (including the full message
    header) to abuse@outlook.com. Sending these types of communications is a
    violation of Microsoft policy and appropriate action will be taken on
    confirmed reports.
 4. Law Enforcement

    If you are a member of law enforcement and wish to serve Microsoft
    Corporation with legal documentation regarding an Outlook.com account, or
    if you have questions regarding legal documentation you have submitted to
    Microsoft, please call (1) (425) 722-1299.

© 2018 |  |  | Developers | English (United States)
