[OLHdrLogo] |

Smart Network Data Service

Smart Network Data Service

View Data View IP Status Request Access Access Control Edit Profile FAQ Junk
Mail Reporting Program

Announcements: Click here to see new updates for SNDS. Updated April 30th, 2026

Welcome

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Outlook.com Smart Network Data Services
Deliverability to Outlook.com is based on your reputation. The Outlook.com
Smart Network Data Services (SNDS) gives you the data you need to understand
and improve your reputation at Outlook.com. But just looking at the data isn't
enough! Maintaining a good reputation is a lot of work. You should use this
data to keep your mailing lists clean and to monitor the IPs you control for
unusual behavior. Reputation is always the responsibility of the sender. SNDS
gives senders access to detailed data about individual IPs, and it also
includes our Junk Email Reporting Program, which lets you receive reports when
users junk your messages. Now you can view IP data and manage feedback loop
settings from one convenient website.

Upcoming changes

  • In May 2026, SNDS will move to a new URL as part of a service update. The
    current site at https://sendersupport.olc.protection.outlook.com will be
    deprecated. This will introduce a number of changes listed below. During
    the migration users can expect downtime to the system, including no JMR
    feeds or report data
  • IP Status and IP Data reports will be accessible through a new REST api.
    Authentication will be provided through the same login users use to access
    the SNDS portal
  • Calculation of IP Status and IP Data will be based off updated data
  • Columns in IP Status and IP Data reports will change to reflect the updated
    data model.
  • Automated report links will expire after 30 days. Existing report links
    will be migrated, but will have to be refreshed 30 days after migration to
    remain active. After this, a refresh every 30 days will be required to keep
    the links active.
  • Networks will require periodic reattestation. Once approved, users have
    access to the network for 10 months before renewal. Users will receive
    reminders prior to the expiration of their network access to ensure they
    have time to reattest and maintain access.
  • Approving networks will require authentication. Approvers will have a new
    experience to renew/approve network access
  • In Edit Profile, Timezones will be based on UTC, not GMT. This means that
    all time-related settings and displays will now reference Coordinated
    Universal Time rather than Greenwich Mean Time.
  • After migration, any JMRP feeds that are not linked to SNDS accounts will
    be removed. You will be asked to create new ones from your SNDS account and
    keep the network access up-to-date.

Getting started
To access SNDS, please log in with a Microsoft Account and then request access
to the IPs for which you are responsible. You'll be taken through a simple
authorization process, and then you'll soon have access to a wealth of
information about those IPs.

Help! I have a problem sending mail to Outlook.com
Building & maintaining good reputation is a long-term proposition. The data on
this site can help you do that, but if you have an urgent deliverability issue
please have the person most familiar with the issue and your email
infrastructure contact sender support.

Other Benefits
SNDS is useful for far more than just monitoring email reputation. It can help
IP owners to detect compromised servers, malware, viruses, and botnets. We help
network administrators detect these problems so that they can clean them up and
make the internet a safer place.
© 2013 | Privacy Statement | Microsoft Services Agreement
