Microsoft logo |

Outlook.com Postmaster

Postmaster
Announcements Fighting Junk Email Policies Services Troubleshooting Outbound IP
Space
Related places
About Outlook.com End-User Support

Services for Senders and ISPs

  • Jump to Sender Solutions
  • Jump to ISP Solutions


Sender Solutions

Email abuse, junk email, and fraudulent emails (phishing) continue to burden
the entire email ecosystem. To help build back consumer trust in the use of
email, Microsoft has put in place various policies and technologies to help
protect our consumers. However, Microsoft understands that legitimate email
senders should not be negatively affected. Therefore, we have established a
suite of services to help senders improve their deliverability to Outlook.com
consumers by proactively managing their sending reputation.

Below is an overview of services that can benefit your organization including
links for more information:

   Service                                 Benefits
                 • A starting point for any questions related to delivering
                   communications to Outlook.com users
                 • Includes a simple online guide with our policies and
Postmaster         requirements
                 • An overview of the junk email filters and authentication
                   technologies employed by Microsoft

                 • The industry’s most recognized and valued email
                   certification program. A third-party accreditation and
                   reputation service used to "safe list" senders.
                 • Topics to learn:
Validity's           □ Email Deliverability
Sender               □ Email Sender and Domain Reputation
Certification        □ Email Security and Authentication
                 • Learn how Validity's Sender Certification helps senders
                   reach more inboxes, faster: https://www.validity.com/
                   sender-certification/

                 • A free service to provide reports on junk email issues
                   reported by Outlook.com users
                 • Returns the full message with headers of any email marked as
                   "junk" or "phishing"
                 • Provides senders an opportunity to clean their email lists
Junk Email         and improve the quality of their content
Reporting        • Helps identify potential problems with your marketing
Program            practices and content
                 • Helps improve sender reputation by removing unwanted
                   subscribers from lists
                 • Enroll at https://postmaster.live.com/snds/JMRP.aspx and
                   typically start receiving feedback within as little as 72
                   hours

                 • A free service that provides high-level insight on how users
                   are rating the email they receive and the health of your IP
                   space as viewed by the Outlook.com system
Smart Network    • Provides easy online registration and access to data
Data Services    • Improves understanding of how our filters rate your email
                 • Reveals how many users complained about your email
                 • Learn more at https://postmaster.live.com/snds

                 • Provides escalation support for deliverability issues.
Support            Support information can be found on the Troubleshooting
                   page.

ISP Solutions

Microsoft understands that no single organization can change or eliminate email
abuse on its own. Internet Service Providers (ISPs) play a major role in
identifying and curbing abuse as they host millions of email accounts around
the world. Therefore, we have built some services to help ISPs gain a good
understanding of the type of traffic originating from their networks and
reaching Outlook.com customers. ISPs can then use this data to help stop
abusive activity (junk email, phishing, etc.) on their networks in order to
reduce overall costs and proactively manage their reputation.

Below is an overview of services that can benefit your organization including
links for more information:

   Service                                Benefits
                • A starting point for any questions related to delivering
                  communications to Outlook.com users
                • Includes a simple online guide with our policies and
Postmaster        requirements
                • An overview of the junk email filters and authentication
                  technologies employed by Microsoft

                • A free service to provide reports on junk email issues
                  reported by Outlook.com users
                • Returns the full message with headers of any email marked as
Junk Email        "junk" or "phishing"
Reporting       • Helps identify customer accounts or PCs that are being used
Program           to send junk email
                • Enroll at https://postmaster.live.com/snds/JMRP.aspx and
                  typically start receiving feedback within as little as 72
                  hours

                • A free service that provides high-level insight on how users
                  are rating the email they receive and the health of your IP
                  space as viewed by the Outlook.com system
                • Provides easy online registration and access to data
Smart Network   • ISPs can realize cost savings by clamping down on spammers
Data Services     using their network
                • ISPs can improve their customer satisfaction by improving
                  their deliverability
                • Learn more at https://postmaster.live.com/snds/index.aspx

Support         • Provides escalation support for deliverability issues.
                  Support information can be found on the Troubleshooting page.

Report junk email originating from Outlook.com

Sometimes Outlook.com is used by third parties to send junk email, in violation
of our terms of use and policy. If you receive any junk email from Outlook.com
you can report these messages to report_spam@outlook.com. Please attach the
offending messages in RFC2822 or ARF format.
© 2025 |  |  | Developers | English (United States)
